---
layout: post
title: Up or Out
category: personal
---

Technology solves everything imo. It just kicks butt. In wars, in improving every day lives. It is progress. Now, considering this is a controversial mindset, I ask you to accept it for the duration of reading this article. We are not trying to determine how to save the world, we are merely looking at this issue through the lens of technology as a solution

People are too dismissive of it. Each new technology is "hyped" or "the next big thing" - like each one is a season of the week celebrity gracing us with its presence before fading back into the annals of history - like tamagachis or pet rocks. 

This is damaging. Technology is powerful because it is cummulative. Current advancements are built on previous ones. If we wish to continue to progress, we must abandon this type of thinking and embrace the current status of it to build. 

Often when people are determining their careers, they look at the world around them. What their fathers/mothers do and what their friends are getting into. Do I want to sit behind a desk all day? Do I want to work with animals? Do I want to help people? These are all noble questions but fundamentally flawed because the world through which we will be living is SO different than the world of the previous generation. Students look at the prevalence of coding jobs and ask themselves if they want to be sitting behind a computer coding for their career. They look at the multitude of app/website startups and wonder if they should instead do a "hardware" startup as the trend of apps is behind us. After all, all the cool apps have already been built. 

Nothing is farther from the truth. This is not how technology works. Coding is not a trend - its a step. If you learn to code now, it doesn't mean that you are training to be a coder. It means that you are catching up to the current state of technology. If you see hardware startup's as the forefront of technology because there arent as many successful ones, you are missing the point. Manufacturing of every day products is a more solved issue than the world of computing that is still only starting to blossom. 

The forefront of technology IS all those apps you think are clones of each other - not because these are the important solutions, but because we as a collective species have just arrived at the point where someone can learn to build a software tool based on the achievements of everyone before him. Rather than thinking that we are done with that, and you should go somewhere else, why not learn it and then start thinking of where to go from here. 

Remember, thinking that you should go to where the puck is going is kind of a flawed assumption. Why not take advantage of this INCREDIBLE ecosystem that allows anyone to create these tools that are living breathing thinking entities and catch yourself up? Lets go forwards together, not all go our own seperate ways and complain that things aren't working right...

