---
layout: post
title: apathy
category: personal
published: false
---

Its amazing how much you care about something just because you work hard on it. Its easy to evaulate things before you do them and dismiss them because you don't care.

"Oh other people will work on climate change."
"Oh other people will try and mitigate the disaster of Donald Trump as president"
"Oh other people will bring AI to the centerfold and figure out how to make it help"

These are all thoughts that I've actually had. Then 1 week, I try and buy 2 shirts for CRSSD festival. It just burns me out because the websites Im on aren't giving good solutions, all the shirts seem lame or they're trying too hard. They are all these crazy abstract shapes. Or "hilarious" slogans. Why can't I find things I actually want? Just simple, relevant, cool, something thats interesting. More than just a blank t-shirt. I consider going to thrift stores again. I re-evaluate why short sleeve button downs don't really fit my image, I stress out about stores where I could buy t-shirts I like in real life. I wonder why this is so difficult. I consider working for t-shirt companies I find online. I post on reddit and ask internet forums about it. I pour time, effort, energy, power into this damn problem of buying just two shirts that I like. This all sounds ridiculous when I type it out of course. 

 FINALLY I find two that I think are cool/interesting. I order them just in time. It says they'll get there the friday before I leave. I breathe a HUGEE sigh of relief. Finally I can move on with my life. I've gotten this taken care of. Its crazy how much relief I feel on this issue...

 THEN, I hear that the shipping date has been moved to AFTER CRSSD! My world comes crashing down. I'm livid, I can't concentrate on work or anything I am doing. I immediately make the calls to try and determine what I need to do to make it right. I am willing to pay extra money, I am willing to drive out to fontana, CA to bribe the post office workers to give it to me. I re-open the panic'ed consideration of going to thrift stores, I re-evaluate my options. I send a seething letter to redbubble, the company I ordered the clothes from. This continues but you can see where its going...

These do not sound like the actions of an apathetic person, or even a sane one. My entire week was almost consumed by this ridiculous issue.

Why? Because all I care about is my image? Because I care more about looking cool and prepared for some music festival than global issues? No, its because I worked for it. That emotional burn out feeling. Like you are just toasting your neurons or something is pretty useful. It engages you. You can almost pinpoint the point in time where you become invested.

So what have we learned? Don't wait to be overcome with a sudden emotional care for some issue. You have to work first. Work until you feel that burn. Like this thing is actually hurting you. You are giving yourself to it literally. Then you will start to care about the outcome.
